# 1. What's your favorite video game and why?
Any of the Mario Kart series. They're great because they can be played solo or competitvely. My very favorite part of it is racing against my younger daughter, although she now routinely beats me soundly!

# 2. What gets your blood pumping?
Spaceflight in general, and human spaceflight in particular . I think it's critical humanity moves beyond the Earth to ensure the long term survival of ourselves and the planet. I've made a good career in STEM and aerospace education at locations such as Space Camp in Huntsville, Alabama, the Musuem of Flight in Seattle and the Challenger Space Center in Phoenix. I've also been the Executive Director of the DoD STARBASE Indiana program and currently serve as the Director of Education and Training for NearSpace Education where I lead students in designing and launching cubesat satellites and high-altitude balloons. To date I've taught over 85,000 students, led more than 1,000 simulated space missions and launched 40 high-altitude balloons (with number 41 coming up this Thursday.)

# 3. What are you a snob about? In other words, what are you highly opinionated about or what is something where you think your taste is better than other peoples’?
It's kind of an esoteric field, but I definitely have strong opinions about space mission patch design. I've been drawing informally all my life and over the last 10 or so years I've been part of the International Institute for Astronautical Sciences (IIAS). During this time one of the main ways I've contributed is through graphic design. I made their main corporate logo and mission patches for several of their different programs and projects. You can see a sampling of them at my website: https://www.tomfoltzart.com/logos  A few years ago I was honored to be asked to design the flight mission patch for IIAS-01, the group's first human spaceflight. On this flight Kellie Gerardi, space researcher and social media influencer, flew onboard the Virgin Galactic Spaceship 2 wearing my patch on her sleeve. There are many excellent flight patch designers working today, and a few (who I won't name) who are fairly big names in the field but I believe make substandard or uninspired patches. 

# 4. Name a way you changed your environment to make it work for you. This can be a favorite hotkey, any unconventional systems you hooked up or a way you were opinionated about your workflow. Think outside the box!
Recently my older daughter graduated with a Masters in Cybersecurity and moved back home while looking for a job. To accomodate her, we rearranged all the bedrooms in our house so she gets the second largest to be a combination bedroom and home office. This led to a challenge for me, since I tend to be a packrat and my wife prefers a simple and sparse aesthetic. I moved all of my stuff into my daughter's old, small bedroom and now it's floor to ceiling shelves with books, games, toys, collectibles and all kinds of other things. She hates it, but I love having my own cluttered little nook where I can do my 3D printing, play VR games, build Lego sets or do whatever else I feel like. At work we've started using Micro:bit computer boards for the students to build satellites and balloon experiments and I'm already thinking up ways to automate my new workspace.

# 5. This is a screenshot of a balloon's altitude profile. Tell me everything you can about the balloon's life:
This balloon launched on June 2, 2025, at 1:57 AM (I'm assuming this is UTC, but maybe it's local time). It takes about an hour to rise to 9,000 (I'll assume this is in meters - about 30,000 ft.), well below the ceiling at 10,000 meters and above the minimum safe altitude, which looks to be just a little above sea level, probably the local ground elevation. Over the next 10 hours, small vent and ballast tweaks result in descending and ascending respectively, maybe to collect data at different altitudes? From about 11:30 to 22:00 it cruises at its ceiling of around 10,000 m, sending back a constant stream of data on the U band and regular packets of data on the L band, until it starts descending at 22:00. It doesn't look like this corresponds to a ballast or vent event, so maybe it's dropping because night is falling and it's cooling down. A slow ballast release at 00:30 on 6/3 sends it back up followed by a vent that brings it down. It looks like there's a slow ballast release over the next 5 hours and another venting to keep it somewhat stable, but I'm not sure what would cause it to bob up and down like it's doing. Anyway, at about 05:30 there's another ballast event which causes it to ascend rapidly to about 16,000 m, maybe to get it up above whatever is approaching and causing the safe altitude to rise sharply to about 10,000 m at around 07:00. Is this an approaching thunderstorm? Also at about 07:00 there's a major vent event which looks like it releases all the extra lifting gas quickly and causes the balloon to drop (into the middle of a first, early storm? That would be awesome! It does seem to be sending back a lot of data on both channels at this time) then rise up again over the next 5 hours to a safe altitude of about 17,000 m. It looks like the next 12 hours are spent safely above a bigger weather event that raises the safe altitude up to the 12,000-15,000 m range, sending back lots of data. I'll admit, the ballast line in this section confuses me because I'm not sure how you would gain ballast during the flight, unless this actually measures some kind of lift to weight ratio and you "gain" ballast by getting rid of more of your main volume of lifting gas (assuming all "extra" gas was vented at the big event at 07:00.) Anyway, it flies safely above the storm from about 13:00 on 6/3 to 02:00 on 6/4. This must have been a pretty big event if it lasted 13 hours. As things are calming down, the balloon descends slowly from 17,000 m at 02:00 to 9,000 m at 13:00 then descends more rapidly and lands a couple of hours later.

# Desk photo description 
The photo "Foltz desktop.png" shows my current, work-in-progress desk. You can see the smiling balloon to the right. Above it are a group of Lego minifigures. Most of them have flown to over 80,000 ft on our balloons. In front of the balloon is a Micron pen, my preferred type of pens for doing pen and ink drawings. On the left side of the desk is my 3D printer. The green and yellow pieces near it are parts of a nine-ring payload assembly for my summer camp balloon flights. Right in the middle is my laptop which helps me do all my lesson planning, CAD and printing work, design work and just about everything else. But the object that's most important to me is immediately left of the balloon picture. This is my copy of Kellie Gerardi's IIAS-01 mission patch that I designed and she took with her in a flightsuit pocket during her mission.
